README.md, before:

## Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course-Project

###Purpose: 
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.

###Dataset Information and Download Links:

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

Here are the data for the project: 

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

###Description of run_Analysis.R:

This repository contains an R script called run_analysis.R.
Additionally, it contains a copy of the output of the data generated by this script called 'tinydata.txt'.

The script performs the following steps:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

###Script Dependencies:

run_analysis.R requires the dplyr package to be installed in your R studio session.

The version of the script uploaded here has sets a working directory on line 9.
The dataset download extracts itself to a folder named 'UCI HAR Dataset'.
You need to modify the value of the setwd command in line 9 to point to this folder before attempting to run it.

Commit message:

Updates to README and Codebook files

README.md, after:

## Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course-Project

###Purpose: 
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.

###Repository Contents:
This repository contains the following files:

run_Analysis.R
README.MD
Codebook.MD
tinydata.txt



###Dataset Information and Download Links:

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

Here are the data for the project: 

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

###Description of run_Analysis.R:

This repository contains an R script called run_analysis.R.
Additionally, it contains a copy of the output of the data generated by this script called 'tinydata.txt'.

The script performs the following steps:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
6. This will generate an output file in the working directory called 'tinydata.txt'

###Script Dependencies:

run_analysis.R requires the dplyr package to be installed in your R studio session.

The version of the script uploaded here has sets a working directory on line 9.
The dataset download extracts itself to a folder named 'UCI HAR Dataset'.
You need to modify the value of the setwd command in line 9 to point to this folder before attempting to run it.
